Create get-started-macos-instructions.md (#16467)
dotnet/docs: docs/spark/tutorials/get-started-macos-instructions.md

---

> title: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Get started with .NET for Apache Spark on macOS
```

description: Discover how to run a .NET for Apache Spark app using .NET Core on MacOSX.
ms.date: 12/30/2019
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.custom: mvc
# Customer intent: As a developer, I want to write a simple custom application using .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX.
---

> # Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on MacOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Tutorial: Get started with .NET for Apache Spark on macOS
```

> This tutorial will show you how to run a .NET for Apache Spark app using .NET Core on MacOSX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will show you how to run a .NET for Apache Spark app using .NET Core on macOS.
```

  - Select the appropriate version for your operating system e.g., `jdk-8u231-macosx-x64.dmg`.
  - Install using the installer and verify you are able to run `java` from your command-line
- Download and install **[Apache Spark 2.4.4](https://archive.apache.org/dist/spark/spark-2.4.4/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7.tgz)**:
  - Add the necessary environment variables SPARK_HOME e.g., `~/bin/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7/`
  
    ```bash
    export SPARK_HOME=~/bin/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7/
    export PATH="$SPARK_HOME/bin:$PATH"
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```
    
- Download and install **[Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)** release:
  - Select a **[Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)** release from .NET for Apache Spark GitHub Releases page and download into your local machine (e.g., `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).
  - **IMPORTANT** Create a new environment variable using ```export DOTNET_WORKER_DIR <your_path>``` and set it to the directory where you downloaded and extracted the Microsoft.Spark.Worker (e.g., `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).

## Authoring a .NET for Apache Spark App

> - Use the `dotnet` CLI to create a console application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the .NET Core CLI to create a console application.
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```dotnetcli
```

    dotnet new console -o HelloSpark
    ```
    

> - Install `Microsoft.Spark` Nuget package into the project from the [spark nuget.org feed](https://www.nuget.org/profiles/spark) - see [Ways to install Nuget Package](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/ways-to-install-a-package)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the `Microsoft.Spark` NuGet package into the project from the [spark nuget.org feed](https://www.nuget.org/profiles/spark) - see [Ways to install Nuget Package](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/ways-to-install-a-package)
```

    
    ```
    cd HelloSpark
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Spark

>     ```

Reviewer: @mairaw, this needs an identifier. Currently, some snippets with mixed commands like this has dotnetcli, and others has console. (#16462)

> - Replace the contents of the `Program.cs` file with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace the contents of the *Program.cs* file with the following code:
```

    
    ```csharp
    using Microsoft.Spark.Sql;

    namespace HelloSpark
    {
        class Program
        {
            static void Main(string[] args)
            {
                var spark = SparkSession.Builder().GetOrCreate();

>                 var df = spark.Read().Json("people.json");

Reviewer: As said in the other PR, I'd use the actual type instead of var in this case.

Author: I have changed to `DataFrame`. Thanks!

                df.Show();
            }
        }
    }
    ```
    

> - Use the `dotnet` CLI to build the application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the .NET Core CLI to build the application:
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```dotnetcli
```

    dotnet build
    ```

## Running your .NET for Apache Spark App

> - Open your terminal and navigate into your app folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your terminal and navigate into your app folder:
```

    
    ```bash
    cd <your-app-output-directory>
    ```
    

> - Create `people.json` with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create *people.json* with the following content:
```

    
    ```json
    { "name" : "Michael" }
    { "name" : "Andy", "age" : 30 }
    { "name" : "Justin", "age" : 19 }
    ```
    

> - Run your app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run your app
```

    
    ```bash
    spark-submit \
    --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
    --master local \
    microsoft-spark-2.4.x-<version>.jar \
    dotnet HelloSpark.dll 
    ```
    

>     **Note**: This command assumes you have downloaded Apache Spark and added it to your PATH environment variable to be able to use `spark-submit`, otherwise, you would have to use the full path (e.g., `~/spark/bin/spark-submit`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [!NOTE]
    > This command assumes you have downloaded Apache Spark and added it to your PATH environment variable to be able to use `spark-submit`, otherwise, you would have to use the full path (e.g., `~/spark/bin/spark-submit`).
```

> - The output of the application should look similar to the output below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The output of the application should look similar to the output below:
```

    
    ```text
    +----+-------+
    | age|   name|
    +----+-------+
    |null|Michael|
    |  30|   Andy|
    |  19| Justin|
    +----+-------+
    ```
   
## Next steps

In this tutorial, you learn how to run your .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX. Continue to learn more about how to run your .NET for Apache Spark on Windows and Ubuntu.
> [!div class="nextstepaction"]

> > [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on Ubuntu](get-started-windows-instructions.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on Windows](get-started-windows-instructions.md)
```

Author: Thanks @gewarren and @Youssef1313 for your comments. I have resolved all the comments accordingly. Thanks!

> > [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX](get-started-ubuntu-instructions.md)

Reviewer: @gewarren, Can you check if this renders correctly on staging with these blank lines ?

**Note:** The link text doesn't match the linked article. Needs to be updated.

Reviewer 2: It does render properly, but I'd suggest this instead:

```suggestion
> [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX](get-started-ubuntu-instructions.md)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on Ubuntu](get-started-ubuntu-instructions.md)
```

---
title: Get started with .NET for Apache Spark on macOS

> description: Discover how to run a .NET for Apache Spark app using .NET Core on MacOSX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Discover how to run a .NET for Apache Spark app using .NET Core on macOS.
```

> ms.date: 01/22/2019

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 01/22/2020
```

ms.topic: tutorial
ms.custom: mvc

> # Customer intent: As a developer, I want to write a simple custom application using .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Customer intent: As a developer, I want to write a simple custom application using .NET for Apache Spark on MacOS.
```

Author: I have changed this to `macOS` to be consistent. Thanks!

---

# Tutorial: Get started with .NET for Apache Spark on macOS

> This tutorial will show you how to run a .NET for Apache Spark app using .NET Core on macOS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to run a .NET for Apache Spark app using .NET Core on macOS.
```

> [!div class="checklist"]
>

> > * Pre-requisites to run your .NET for Apache Spark application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> * Prerequisites to run a .NET for Apache Spark application
```

> * Write a simple .NET for Apache Spark application

> > * Build and run your .NET for Apache Spark application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> * Build and run a .NET for Apache Spark application
```

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> - Download and install **[.NET Core 3.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.1)** 

Reviewer 3: If we do decide to have this as a separate article from the current Get Started, take a look at how we worded things there *and* in Niharika's PR for this pre-req section to make sure it's consistent.

- Install **[Java 8](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html)** 

>   - Select the appropriate version for your operating system e.g., `jdk-8u231-macosx-x64.dmg`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Select the appropriate version for your operating system, for example, `jdk-8u231-macosx-x64.dmg`.
```

>   - Install using the installer and verify you are able to run `java` from your command-line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Install using the installer and verify you are able to run `java` from the command line
```

- Download and install **[Apache Spark 2.4.4](https://archive.apache.org/dist/spark/spark-2.4.4/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7.tgz)**:

>   - Add the necessary environment variables SPARK_HOME e.g., `~/bin/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Add the necessary environment variable SPARK_HOME with a value of, for example, `~/bin/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7/`
```

>   - Add the necessary environment variable SPARK_HOME with a value of, for example, `~/bin/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add the necessary environment variable SPARK_HOME with a value of, for example, *~/bin/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7/*
```

  
    ```bash
    export SPARK_HOME=~/bin/spark-2.4.4-bin-hadoop2.7/
    export PATH="$SPARK_HOME/bin:$PATH"
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```
    
- Download and install **[Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)** release:

>   - Select a **[Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)** release from .NET for Apache Spark GitHub Releases page and download into your local machine (e.g., `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Select a **[Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)** release from .NET for Apache Spark GitHub Releases page and download into your local machine (for example, `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).
```

>   - Select a **[Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)** release from .NET for Apache Spark GitHub Releases page and download into your local machine (for example, `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).

Reviewer: Missing "~" ?
Correct me if it I'm wrong.

```suggestion
  - Select a **[Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)** release from .NET for Apache Spark GitHub Releases page and download into your local machine (for example, *~/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/*).
```

Author: You are right, good catch! Thanks.

>   - **IMPORTANT** Create a new environment variable using ```export DOTNET_WORKER_DIR <your_path>``` and set it to the directory where you downloaded and extracted the Microsoft.Spark.Worker (e.g., `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **IMPORTANT** Create a new environment variable using ```export DOTNET_WORKER_DIR <your_path>``` and set it to the directory where you downloaded and extracted the Microsoft.Spark.Worker (for example, `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).
```

>   - **IMPORTANT** Create a new environment variable using ```export DOTNET_WORKER_DIR <your_path>``` and set it to the directory where you downloaded and extracted the Microsoft.Spark.Worker (for example, `/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **IMPORTANT** Create a new environment variable using ```export DOTNET_WORKER_DIR <your_path>``` and set it to the directory where you downloaded and extracted the Microsoft.Spark.Worker (for example, *~/bin/Microsoft.Spark.Worker/*).
```

> ## Authoring a .NET for Apache Spark App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Author a .NET for Apache Spark app
```

1. Use the .NET Core CLI to create a console application.

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet new console -o HelloSpark
    ```
    

> 1. Install the `Microsoft.Spark` NuGet package into the project from the [spark nuget.org feed](https://www.nuget.org/profiles/spark) - see [Ways to install Nuget Package](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/ways-to-install-a-package)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the `Microsoft.Spark` NuGet package into the project from the [spark nuget.org feed](https://www.nuget.org/profiles/spark). For more information, see [Ways to install Nuget Package](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/consume-packages/ways-to-install-a-package).
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```dotnetcli
```

    cd HelloSpark
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Spark
    ```
    
1. Replace the contents of the *Program.cs* file with the following code:
    
    ```csharp
    using Microsoft.Spark.Sql;

    namespace HelloSpark
    {
        class Program
        {
            static void Main(string[] args)
            {
                var spark = SparkSession.Builder().GetOrCreate();
                DataFrame df = spark.Read().Json("people.json");
                df.Show();
            }
        }
    }
    ```
    
1. Use the .NET Core CLI to build the application:
    
    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet build
    ```

> ## Running your .NET for Apache Spark App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Run your .NET for Apache Spark app
```

1. Open your terminal and navigate into your app folder:
    
    ```bash
    cd <your-app-output-directory>
    ```
    
1. Create *people.json* with the following content:
    
    ```json
    { "name" : "Michael" }
    { "name" : "Andy", "age" : 30 }
    { "name" : "Justin", "age" : 19 }
    ```
    

> 1. Run your app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the app.
```

    
    ```bash
    spark-submit \
    --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
    --master local \
    microsoft-spark-2.4.x-<version>.jar \
    dotnet HelloSpark.dll 
    ```
    
    > [!NOTE]

>     > This command assumes you have downloaded Apache Spark and added it to your PATH environment variable to be able to use `spark-submit`, otherwise, you would have to use the full path (e.g., `~/spark/bin/spark-submit`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > This command assumes you have downloaded Apache Spark and added it to your PATH environment variable to be able to use `spark-submit`. Otherwise, you would have to use the full path (for example, `~/spark/bin/spark-submit`).
```

> 1. The output of the application should look similar to the output below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The output of the application should look similar to the following output:
```

    
    ```text
    +----+-------+
    | age|   name|
    +----+-------+
    |null|Michael|
    |  30|   Andy|
    |  19| Justin|
    +----+-------+
    ```
   
## Next steps

> In this tutorial, you learn how to run your .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX. Continue to learn more about how to run your .NET for Apache Spark on Windows and Ubuntu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to run your .NET for Apache Spark on macOS. Continue to learn more about how to run your .NET for Apache Spark on Windows and Ubuntu.
```

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on Windows](get-started-windows-instructions.md)

> > [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on MacOSX](get-started-ubuntu-instructions.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Tutorial: Get Started with .NET for Apache Spark on Ubuntu](get-started-ubuntu-instructions.md)
```
